.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl \- command\-line management tool for the Erooster mail server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl
[\fI\-\-config\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fI\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR]
[\fI\-\-no\-color\fR]
[\fI\-y\fR]
\fIcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBeroosterctl\fR is the administration CLI for the Erooster mail server suite.
It provides commands for checking server health, managing users, inspecting the
outbound mail queue, and verifying DNS configuration.
.P
All commands accept \fB\-\-output json\fR for machine\-readable output suitable
for use with Ansible, scripts, and monitoring systems. When all required flags
are supplied, commands run silently without prompts. When run interactively
from a TTY with flags omitted, commands prompt for missing values using guided
input.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-config\fR \fIpath\fR
Path to the Erooster configuration file. Defaults to \fI./config.yml\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR
Output format. \fBtable\fR (default) renders a human\-readable table.
\fBjson\fR emits newline\-terminated JSON for scripting.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-color\fR
Disable ANSI color output. Color is also automatically disabled when the
\fBNO_COLOR\fR environment variable is set (to any value, including empty),
when \fBTERM=dumb\fR, or when stdout is not a TTY.
.TP
\fB\-y, \-\-yes\fR
Suppress interactive confirmation prompts globally. Equivalent to passing
\fB\-\-yes\fR to each individual command.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Run live health checks against the database, TLS certificate, DKIM key, and
autoconfig endpoint. See \fBeroosterctl\-status\fR(1).
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Display version and build information. See \fBeroosterctl\-version\fR(1).
.TP
\fBconfig validate\fR
Validate the configuration file. See \fBeroosterctl\-config\-validate\fR(1).
.TP
\fBuser\fR \fIsubcommand\fR (alias: \fBu\fR)
Manage mail users: list, add, delete, passwd, exists, import.
See \fBeroosterctl\-user\fR(1).
.TP
\fBmailbox list\fR (alias: \fBmb list\fR)
List mailbox folders for a user. See \fBeroosterctl\-mailbox\-list\fR(1).
.TP
\fBqueue\fR \fIsubcommand\fR (alias: \fBq\fR)
Manage the outbound mail queue: list, show, retry, flush, abandon.
See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\fR(1).
.TP
\fBdomain check\fR (alias: \fBdns check\fR)
Perform DNS record checks for the mail domain.
See \fBeroosterctl\-domain\-check\fR(1).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
Success.
.TP
\fB1\fR
Operational error (health check failed, user not found, DB error, etc.).
.TP
\fB2\fR
Usage error — required flags were missing in non\-interactive mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBNO_COLOR\fR
When set to any value (including empty), disables all ANSI color output.
See https://no\-color.org/ for the specification.
.TP
\fBTERM\fR
When set to \fBdumb\fR, disables color output.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI./config.yml\fR
Default configuration file path (override with \fB\-\-config\fR).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\-status\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-version\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-user\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-domain\-check\fR(1)
