.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-queue 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-queue \- manage the outbound mail queue (alias: \fBq\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl queue
\fIsubcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBqueue\fR command group provides subcommands for inspecting and
controlling the outbound mail delivery queue. The group can be abbreviated
as \fBq\fR.
.P
Queue entries move through the following statuses:
.RS 4
.TP
\fBpending\fR
Waiting for the next delivery attempt.
.TP
\fBdelivering\fR
Currently being processed by the delivery worker.
.TP
\fBfailed\fR
Last attempt failed; will be retried according to the retry schedule.
.TP
\fBabandoned\fR
Exceeded the maximum number of retry attempts; will not be retried again.
.TP
\fBdelivered\fR
Delivered to the local maildir (no outbound relay needed).
.RE
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
\fBlist\fR [\fI\-\-status\fR \fIstatus\fR] (alias: \fBls\fR)
List queue entries. See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\-list\fR(1).
.TP
\fBshow\fR \fIid\fR
Show the full details of one entry including its delivery log.
See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\-show\fR(1).
.TP
\fBretry\fR \fIid\fR
Force immediate re\-delivery of a failed or abandoned entry.
See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\-retry\fR(1).
.TP
\fBflush\fR
Force retry of all entries with status \fBfailed\fR.
See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\-flush\fR(1).
.TP
\fBabandon\fR \fIid\fR
Permanently abandon an entry without deleting it.
See \fBeroosterctl\-queue\-abandon\fR(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\-list\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\-show\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\-retry\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\-flush\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-queue\-abandon\fR(1)
