.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-domain-check 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-domain\-check \- check DNS records for the mail domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl domain check
[\fIhostname\fR]
[\fI\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Performs four DNS lookups against the mail domain and reports whether the
records required for correct mail delivery are present and well\-formed:
.P
.RS 4
\fBMX\fR \(em at least one MX record must exist; its priority and target host
are shown.
.P
\fBSPF\fR \(em a TXT record starting with \fIv=spf1\fR must exist on the
domain.
.P
\fBDKIM\fR \(em a TXT record must exist at
\fI<selector>._domainkey.<hostname>\fR (selector is taken from
\fImail.dkim_key_selector\fR in the configuration) and must contain a \fBp=\fR
field with the public key.
.P
\fBDMARC\fR \(em a TXT record starting with \fIv=DMARC1\fR must exist at
\fI_dmarc.<hostname>\fR.
.RE
.P
The \fBdomain\fR command group may be abbreviated as \fBdns\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIhostname\fR
Domain to check. Defaults to \fImail.hostname\fR from the configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR
\fBtable\fR (default) prints one row per check: CHECK, PASS/FAIL, detail.
\fBjson\fR emits an array of objects with \fIcheck\fR, \fIstatus\fR, and
\fIdetail\fR fields.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Check the domain from config
eroosterctl domain check

# Check a specific domain
eroosterctl dns check example.com

# Suitable for CI / deployment pipelines
eroosterctl --output json domain check example.com \
  | jq '.[] | select(.status != "PASS")'
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
All DNS checks passed.
.TP
\fB1\fR
One or more DNS checks failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-status\fR(1)
