.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-config-validate 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-config\-validate \- validate the Erooster configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl config validate
[\fI\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads the configuration file (default \fI./config.yml\fR, override with
\fBeroosterctl \-\-config\fR) and validates it:
.P
.RS 4
\(bu Required fields (\fImail.hostname\fR, \fImail.dkim_key_path\fR,
\fImail.dkim_key_selector\fR, \fItls.cert_path\fR, \fItls.key_path\fR,
\fIdatabase.url\fR) must not be empty.
.P
\(bu File paths (\fImail.dkim_key_path\fR, \fItls.cert_path\fR,
\fItls.key_path\fR) must point to readable files.
.P
\(bu A database connection must be established successfully.
.RE
.P
Each failure is reported on stderr. With \fB\-\-output json\fR the entire
result is returned as a single JSON object even when errors are present.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR
Output format. \fBjson\fR returns \fI{"ok": bool, "issues": [...]}\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
Configuration is valid.
.TP
\fB1\fR
One or more validation errors were found.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Validate and report errors
eroosterctl config validate

# Use in a deployment script
eroosterctl --config /etc/erooster/config.yml config validate || exit 1

# Parse issues in a pipeline
eroosterctl --output json config validate | jq '.issues[]'
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-status\fR(1)
