.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-status 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-status \- show live health status of all server components
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl status
[\fI\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs a set of live health checks against each server component and prints
a summary. The checks are:
.P
.RS 4
\fBDatabase\fR \(em connects to the configured database and runs a lightweight
query to confirm the connection is alive.
.P
\fBTLS cert\fR \(em reads the certificate at \fItls.cert_path\fR, verifies it
has not expired, confirms the configured \fImail.hostname\fR is covered by the
Subject Alternative Name or Common Name, and warns if expiry is fewer than 30
days away.
.P
\fBDKIM key\fR \(em loads the private key at \fImail.dkim_key_path\fR and
performs a test sign to confirm the key is valid and the file is readable.
.P
\fBAutoconfig\fR \(em sends an HTTP GET to the autoconfig discovery endpoint
and verifies the response contains a valid \fI<clientConfig>\fR element.
.RE
.P
After the check summary, \fBstatus\fR prints aggregate counts: total users,
total mailbox folders, and queue pending / failed entries.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-output\fR \fBtable\fR|\fBjson\fR
Output format. \fBjson\fR emits a single JSON object containing the version,
all check results, and aggregate counts.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
All checks passed.
.TP
\fB1\fR
One or more checks failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Interactive health check
eroosterctl status

# Suitable for monitoring scripts
eroosterctl --output json status | jq '.checks[] | select(.status != "OK")'
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-config\-validate\fR(1)
