.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-user-add 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-user\-add \- add a new user to the mail server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl user add
[\fI\-\-email\fR \fIaddress\fR]
[\fI\-\-password\fR \fIsecret\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a new mail user account. When \fB\-\-email\fR and \fB\-\-password\fR
are both supplied the command runs non\-interactively and exits silently with
code 0 on success. When either flag is omitted and stdin is a TTY, the missing
values are collected via interactive prompts; the password prompt requests
confirmation.
.P
If stdin is not a TTY and a required flag is missing, the command writes a
usage error to stderr and exits with code 2.
.P
The email address is lowercased before storage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-e, \-\-email\fR \fIaddress\fR
Email address of the new user.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-password\fR \fIsecret\fR
Password for the new user. Prefer passing this via an interactive prompt
rather than on the command line, to avoid the password appearing in shell
history.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Guided interactive creation
eroosterctl user add

# Scripted (e.g., from Ansible)
eroosterctl user add --email alice@example.com --password "$(cat /run/secrets/alice_pw)"

# Pipe password securely from a secret manager
printf '%s' "$SECRET" | eroosterctl user add --email bob@example.com --password -
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
User created successfully.
.TP
\fB1\fR
Database error or duplicate user.
.TP
\fB2\fR
Required flag missing in non\-interactive mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\-user\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-user\-delete\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-user\-passwd\fR(1)
