.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 MTRNord
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.TH eroosterctl-user-import 1 "June 2026" "eroosterctl" "Erooster Manual"
.SH NAME
eroosterctl\-user\-import \- bulk import users from a CSV file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eroosterctl user import
[\fI\-\-file\fR \fIpath\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a list of users from a CSV file (or stdin) and creates them in bulk.
Each non\-empty, non\-comment line must be in the format:
.P
.RS 4
\fIemail\fR,\fIpassword\fR
.RE
.P
Lines beginning with \fB#\fR are treated as comments and skipped. Blank lines
are skipped. The email address is lowercased before storage.
.P
If creation of a user fails (for example, because the address already exists),
that row is skipped and counted as failed; the import continues with the
remaining rows. A summary is printed at the end.
.P
\fBNote on security:\fR Passwords in the CSV file are visible to any user with
read access to the file. Use file permissions (\fBchmod 600\fR) to restrict
access, and delete or shred the file after import.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-file\fR \fIpath\fR
Path to the CSV file. If omitted, reads from stdin.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Import from a file
eroosterctl user import --file /tmp/new_users.csv

# Import from a heredoc (password never touches disk)
eroosterctl user import <<EOF
alice@example.com,correct-horse-battery-staple
bob@example.com,hunter2
EOF

# Count failures
eroosterctl user import --file users.csv
# 47 imported, 2 failed
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
All users imported successfully.
.TP
\fB1\fR
One or more users failed to import.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBeroosterctl\-user\fR(1),
\fBeroosterctl\-user\-add\fR(1)
